## Abstract Model:
---------------
>An abstract model is a base class in which you define fields you
want to include in all child models. Django doesn't create any
database table for abstract models. A database table is created for
each child model, including the fields inherited from the abstract
class and the ones defined in the child model.
from django.db import models

>The following example shows an abstract Content model and a child
Text model:

```python
class BaseContent(models.Model):
    title = models.CharField(max_length=100)
    created = models.DateTimeField(auto_now_add=True)
    
    class Meta:
        abstract = True
    
    class Text(BaseContent):
        body = models.TextField()
```
* To mark a model as abstract, you need to include abstract=True in its
  Meta class.

* Django would include an automatically generated OneToOneField field
  in the Text model and create a database table for each model.

## Proxy models:
---
>Proxy models are used to change the behavior of a model, for
example, by including additional methods or different meta
options. Both models operate on the database table of the original
model. To create a proxy model, add proxy=True to the Meta class of the
model.

>The following example illustrates how to create a proxy model:

```python
from django.db import models
from django.utils import timezone

class BaseContent(models.Model):
    title = models.CharField(max_length=100)
    created = models.DateTimeField(auto_now_add=True)

class OrderedContent(BaseContent):
    class Meta:
        proxy = True
    
    ordering = ['created']
    
    def created_delta(self):
        return timezone.now() - self.created
```
* Here, we define an OrderedContent model that is a proxy model for the
  Content model.

## Creating the content models
---
>The Content model of our courses application contains a generic
relation to associate different types of content to it. We will create a
different model for each type of content. All content models will
have some fields in common and additional fields to store custom
data.

