```
.
├── helloworld_project
│ ├── __init__.py
│ ├── settings.py
│ ├── urls.py
│ └── wsgi.py
└── manage.py
```

* The settings.py file controls our project’s settings, urls.py tells Django which pages to build in response to a browser or url request, and wsgi.py , which stands for web server gateway interface, helps Django serve our eventual web pages. The last file manage.py is used to execute various Django commands such as running the local web server or creating a new app.

* Django comes with a built-in web server for local development purposes. We can start it with the runserver command.

```
├── pages
│ ├── __init__.py
│ ├── admin.py
│ ├── apps.py
│ ├── migrations
│ │     └── __init__.py
│ ├── models.py
│ ├── tests.py
│ └── views.py
```
* admin.py is a configuration file for the built-in Django Admin app.
* apps.py is a configuration file for the app itself.
* migrations/ keeps track of any changes to our models.py file so our database and models.py stay in sync
* models.py is where we define our database models, which Django automatically translates into database tables.
* tests.py is for our app-specific tests.
* views.py is where we handle the request/response logic for our web app.

## Views and URLConfs:
---
1. In Django, Views determine <strong>what</strong> content is displayed on a given page while URLConfs determine <strong>where</strong> that content is going.

2. When a user requests a specific page, like the homepage, the URLConf uses a regular expression to map that request to the appropriate view function which then returns the correct data. In other words, our view will output the text “Hello, World” while our url will ensure that when the user visits the homepage they are redirected to the correct view.

Ex:
```python
# pages/views.py
from django.http import HttpResponse

def homePageView(request):
    return HttpResponse('Hello, World!')
```
>Basically we’re saying whenever the view function homePageView is called, return the text “Hello, World!” More specifically, we’ve imported the built-in HttpResponse method so we can return a response object to the user. We’ve created a function called homePageView that accepts the request object and returns a response with the string Hello, World! .

```python
# pages/urls.py
from django.urls import path
from . import views
urlpatterns = [
    path('', views.homePageView, name='home')
]
```
>On the top line we import path from Django to power our urlpattern and on the next line we import our views. The period used here from . import views means reference the current directory, which is our pages app containing both views.py and urls.py .

Our urlpattern has three parts: 
* a Python regular expression for the empty string ''
* specify the view which is called homePageView
* add an optional url name of 'home'

> In other words, if the user requests the homepage, represented by the empty string '' then use the view called homePageView .

## Templates
---
* Every web framework needs a convenient way to generate HTML files. In Django, the approach is to use templates so that individual HTML files can be served by a view to a web page specified by the URL.
* It’s worth repeating this pattern since you’ll see it over and over again in Django development: Templates, Views, and URLs. The order in which you create them doesn’t much matter since all three are required and work closely together. The URLs control the initial route, the entry point into a page, such as /about , the views contain the logic or the “what”, and the template as the HTML. For web pages that rely on a database model, it is the view that does much of the work to decide what data is available to the template.
* So: Templates, Views, URLs. This pattern will hold true for every Django web page you make. However it will take some repetition before you internalize it.

